



<style>
.pagebreak { page-break-before: always; }
.half { height: 200px; }
</style>








# Interactive - 15 - select with group data of data

SQL has the ability to group data.  When we use the count() function
we are grouping by data.  You can only group by data that you
select - you can not group by hidden columns.   However you can
use a nested select to pick just some of the columns after you
have grouped.  The last part of this homework will show this.
First we have to group the data.

```
SELECT 
		fed_area,
		min(gdp_growth) as max_growth,
		avg(gdp_growth) as avg_growth,
		max(gdp_growth) as min_growth,
		string_agg(state, ',' ORDER BY state) as  state_list
	FROM us_state
	GROUP BY fed_area
	ORDER BY fed_area
;

```

You can group by more than one column.  All the non-grouped columns
have to be in some form aggregated.   In this example we have min, max, avg
and string_agg.

To group columns the database has to sort them.  So an order by is usually
free.  If you group by a column that there is a b-tree index on the group
by is much faster.   The database will use the index instead of re-sorting
the data.  Other index types do not provide sorted data (gin, gist, hash etc).

Let's say we just want the avg_growth and the list of states.  We
have to have fed_area to do the grouping - but we can nest
our select.


```
SELECT t1.avg_growth, t1.state_list
	FROM (
		SELECT 
				t2.fed_area,
				avg(t2.gdp_growth) as avg_growth,
				string_agg(t2.state, ',' ORDER BY state) as  state_list
			FROM us_state as t2
			GROUP BY t2.fed_area
	) as t1
;

```

## Take Away

1. group by
2. order by
3. min/avg/max
4. nested selects in FROM
4. Aliasing tables int the "FROM" with "as"

## Book

- group by - page 120 to 121
- min, max - page 119
- avg - 64, 195
- order by - page 15, 16
- alias table name - page 86
- nested query in From - page 195 (avg used also)

#### Tags: "min","max","avg","group by","order by","nested query","sub query"

#### Validate: SQL-Select,"select 'PASS' as x"
