



<style>
.pagebreak { page-break-before: always; }
.half { height: 200px; }
</style>








# Interactive - 30 - 1 to ordered list relationship		(fk to uk with sequence)


The model has a 1 to a list of rows.  This is a more unusual relationship
because the list can be ordered by time.  Usually relationships in a SQL
database are not inherently ordered.  In  this case we use a sequence 
generated number to make the set of rows in a specific order.


Taken from hw26_3.sql that you have already run.
You don't have to run it again.
The first step is to create a sequence.   This one is `t_log_seq`.
Each time a value is used from the sequenced it increments.


```
CREATE SEQUENCE t_log_seq
  INCREMENT 1
  MINVALUE 1
  MAXVALUE 9223372036854775807
  START 1
  CACHE 1;

```

For the field "seq' in the table we use the sequence.  This is
the `nextval('t_log_seq'::regclass)` default value.  When we insert
we allow the default value to fill `seq`.   Our join is a 1:n join
based on user_id to the user.  Each time a security event happens
we insert the type of event to this table.   In a complete
security system this kind of a "log" has a trigger on it and
for certain events it would generate an email to the user.  An
example is the creation of a device/application account or the
change of the account password.   Some events would just be logged
for later statistical usage - like a login or logout event.

Also taken from hw26_3.sql that you have already run.
You don't have to run it again.

```
CREATE TABLE "t_ymux_user_log" (
	  "id"					uuid DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4() not null primary key
	, "user_id"				uuid 	-- if null then a failed event
	, "seq"	 				bigint DEFAULT nextval('t_log_seq'::regclass) NOT NULL 
	, "activity_name"		text
	, "updated" 			timestamp
	, "created" 			timestamp default current_timestamp not null
);

create index "t_ymux_user_log_p1" on "t_ymux_user_log" ( "user_id", "seq" );
create index "t_ymux_user_log_p2" on "t_ymux_user_log" ( "user_id", "created" );
```

Run a simple select on t_ymux_user_log.  You should have at least 2 rows in
it.

```
select * from t_ymux_user_log;
```


## Assignment 03 - Create 2 tables.   

50 points.

Create a table a "issue" table that has a text body column called "body".
The table needs to have a UUID primary key that is automatically generated.
Then create a child table, "issue_note" that has a list of comments with dates associated
with the "issue" table.   This list of comments needs to be ordered using
a "seq" column.   Create a sequence to support this column.  Call the sequence "t_issue_note_seq".
Both tables need to have created/updated columns that are date stamps.

Turn in the source code for creating the tables with some inserts that put 
data into the tables and a select that verifies an issue and a set of
issue notes.

Don't loose your source code for these tables.
We will use these tables in the assignment on key word search later in the class.



#### Tags: "1 to list","list of rows"

#### Validate: SQL-Select,"select 'PASS' as x"
