
m4_include(setup.m4)

# Interactive - 42 - foreign data wrapper

PostgreSQL can access data outside of the database.  This is called a foreign data wrapper (FDW).   There are all sorts of foreign data
wrappers.  You can access data in other databases like Oracle or MySQL.  You can access
data in NoSQL databases like MongoDB.     For a full list (of over 30 different kinds of data you can access)
[https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Foreign_data_wrappers](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Foreign_data_wrappers) .

Also you can use files like comma separated value (CSV) files through the FDW.  There is a file_fdw data wrapper!

To set this up you need to create the extension in PostgreSQL.

```
m4_include(hw42_01.sql)
```

Then we can use data on the PostgreSQL server and access it.   There is a file with data on our server at `/home/uw4280/hw42_data.csv`.


The data in the file is:
```
m4_include(hwr2_03.csv)
```

We can create a table that matches with this and imports the data.

```
m4_include(hwr2_02.sql)
```

Now we can use standard selects to access the data.

```
m4_include(hwr2_04.sql)
```

The limitation on the selects and the table is that it will do a full table scan (slow)
each time you access the data.  If you want to create indexes on it you need to use
a materialized view or create a new table with the data in it.  Then create indexes
and other data objects based on that table.

You can use FDW to access other PostgreSQL databases and other databases in different
machines.

Another way to access a different database is to use `dblink` in a query.  This is
more efficient, but can only be used to access database in the same running instance
of PotreSQL.  

This is an example of using `dblink` - you don't need to run it.  It is just an example.

```
SELECT * 
FROM   table1 as t1 
LEFT   JOIN (
   SELECT *
   FROM dblink('dbname=database2','SELECT t3.id, t3.code FROM table2 as t3') AS t2(id int, code text)
) AS t4 ON t4.column = t1.column
;
```













#### Tags: "foreign data wrapper","csv","fdw","import data"




