



<style>
.pagebreak { page-break-before: always; }
.half { height: 200px; }
</style>








# Interactive - 46 -  NULL - differences between databases

By now you have noticed that if a column allows you can have NULL values in it.
This is a non-data value.

The handling of NULL differers just enough between different databases to make
code non-portable from database to database (At least it requires a lot of 
effort to port).

First thing to no about NULL is that NULL data is not indexed.  So if you go
looking for NULL it will result in a full table scan.

Also NULL is not equal to anything.  There is a special pair of operators, `IS NULL` and `IS NOT NULL`
for checking if a column or value is null.

```
SELECT 'found' where NULL = NULL;

```

will return 0 rows because NULL is not equal to anything, even itself.

```
SELECT 'found' where NULL is NULL;

```

PostgreSQL provides 2 functions for dealing with nulls.  The first is `nullif`.

If the 2 arguments are equal then NULL is returned.

```
SELECT nullif(1,1);

SELECT nullif(1,2);

```

If the 2 arguments are NOT equal then the first argument is returned.


```
SELECT nullif(1,2);

```

The second function is `coalesce`.
This function substitutes a default value when the first argument is NULL.

```
SELECT coalesce(NULL,2);

```

If the first argument is NULL then the defalut, in this case 2, is returned.

If the first argument is not NULL then the non-null first argument is returned.


```
SELECT coalesce(5,2);

```



Note: In the Oracle database you use the 'nvl' function and a special table with 1 row in it called 'dual';



#### Tags: "NULL"

#### Validate: SQL-Select,"select 'PASS' as x"

