
m4_include(setup.m4)

# Lesson 01 - Create table

## Description

One of the first things is creating a table.  Tables before you can store data in the database you have to define the structure of the data.
Tables are a set of rows, with a typed value for each column.
This is a table.

```
m4_include(l01.a.sql)
```

In this table we have a unique id.   It is a good practice to have a unique key for every row in a table.
You will save a lot of effort and frustration if you use generated unique keys.   Sometimes people think
that they can use a _natureal key_, some sort of data that forms a unique set of values.   In practice
this is almost never happens in the real world.  Things that do not make good keys:

- Name and address
- Address
- Name and Age
- Dates and times ( even down to the millionth of a second )

If you create a unique generated key it is unique - problem solved.  Encoding data in supposedly unique natural keys will almost always get you into trouble.

Create the table and then in the next lesson we will put some data in it.

Other Notes:

1. The example in the book uses `bigserial` - this data type has been dropped from PostgreSQL - all `serial` types are now the same as `bigserial`.
2. You can't have to put `CREATE TABLE` in all caps - this is just style.
3. We will use other data types (UUID) for keys also.
4. `not null` means that the value is required.
5. `PRIMARY KEY` tells it to create a unique index on the `id` field.
6. A unique key for a table is often called `id` or the table name followed with `_id`.  In this case `teachers_id`.
7. It is n ormal to see column names with `_` in them.
8. By default SQL is case insensitive.

Take the above code and create a table with it - both in this interactive environment and in your own install
of PostgreSQL.  We will use this table later with data in your local install of PosgreSQL.

## Book Section

page 5, 6, 7

## Video

l01.mp4

## Validation

checkL01

```
m4_include(l01.b.sql)
```
